---
title: "GitLab System Admin - Hands-On Lab: Logging and Monitoring GitLab Kubernetes"
description: "This Hands-On Guide demonstrates how to monitor your GitLab Kubernetes instance and analyze your logs"
---

> Estimated time to complete: 30 minutes

## Objectives

The objective of this lab is to demonstrate how to use Prometheus and Grafana for log analysis and monitoring.

## Task A. Access the Prometheus Service

1. GitLab's Prometheus server can be reached via TCP port 9090. To access this port, you need to create a proxy into your Kubernetes cluster. This can be done with the following command:

    ```bash
    kubectl proxy
    ```

1. To access Prometheus, you need to know its pod name. To find this, run the command `kubectl get pods`. Search for Prometheus in the output.

1. Navigate to `http://localhost:8001/api/v1/namespaces/default/pods/PROMETHEUS_POD_NAME:9090/proxy/` in a web browser to view the built-in Prometheus server.

1. To view the available metrics in Prometheus, navigate to `http://localhost:8001/api/v1/namespaces/default/pods/PROMETHEUS_POD_NAME:9090/proxy/metrics`.

    > To see a more detailed list of each metric, check out the [documentation](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/monitoring/prometheus/gitlab_metrics.html).

## Task C. Viewing Prometheus Metrics

> For this example, suppose you wanted to monitor HTTP requests sent into your GitLab instance. To achieve this, we can use some built in GitLab metrics.

1. Navigate to `http://localhost:8001/api/v1/namespaces/default/pods/PROMETHEUS_POD_NAME:9090/proxy/`.

1. In the input beside the **magnifying glass** button, type `http_requests_total`.

1. Click the **Execute** button.

1. Click **Table** to view a table of all the results generated by the query.

    > You will likely see a variety of different HTTP requests in the results. Note that you can see the `job`, `instance`, `HTTP method` and `status` of each request.

1. Click **Graph** to view a graph of your data.

    > On the left hand side of the graph, you will see a **-** and **+** button. You can click these buttons to change the scale of the graph. Try adjusting the scale to see how it impacts your data.

## Task D. Alert Configurations

> Prometheus can be used to alert administrators based on specific metrics. GitLab comes with a set of predefined alerts for Prometheus.

1. Navigate to `http://localhost:8001/api/v1/namespaces/default/pods/PROMETHEUS_POD_NAME:9090/proxy/`.

1. Click **Alerts** in the top menu.

    > Note that there are two sets of alert rules, one named GitLab and one named Node. The GitLab alerts correspond to platform issues such as a service being down, Postgres being down, or high queueing within services. A Node alert corresponds to the server GitLab is deployed on.

1. Note that in Kubernetes deployments, alert rules are configured through ConfigMaps and the Prometheus Helm chart configuration rather than file-based rules.

    > As an administrator, you can define custom rules through Kubernetes ConfigMaps or by updating the Prometheus Helm values to add alerting rules.

## Task E. Common Performance Metrics

There are a variety of different metrics administrators can use to monitor the performance of their GitLab instances. Let's examine a few common queries you can use to monitor an instance.

1. Navigate to `http://localhost:8001/api/v1/namespaces/default/pods/PROMETHEUS_POD_NAME:9090/proxy/`.

1. In the input beside the **magnifying glass** button, type the following query:

    ```text
    sum(rate(gitlab_cache_misses_total[5m])) by (cache_key)
    ```

    > This query will show you the rate of cache misses in GitLab, which can indicate performance issues. Note that the standard node metrics (memory, CPU) require additional exporters like node-exporter or kube-state-metrics to be installed in the Kubernetes cluster.

1. Click **Graph** to view the percentage of memory over time.

1. In the query input, delete your previous query and replace it with the following query:

    ```text
    sum(rate(http_requests_total[5m])) by (job)
    ```

    > This query will show you the rate of HTTP requests per job in your GitLab instance.

1. Click **Graph** to view the percent of CPU used over time.

    > For these metrics and many others, you may want to consider alerting for specific conditions. For example, you could alert for cases where the CPU usage exceeds 50% consistently, as it might indicate an issue.

## Lab Guide Complete

You have completed this lab exercise. You can view the other [lab guides for this course](/handbook/customer-success/professional-services-engineering/education-services/ilt-labs/sysadminhandson).

## Suggestions?

If you wish to make a change to the lab, please submit your changes via Merge Request.
